How to install OpenBSD source and recompile the whole system
------------------------------------------------------------

0. install virtualbox from virtualbox.org

1. install openbsd amd64 iso on virtual box from hakrtech
   Need a separate document for this.
   a. select install not autoinstall
   b. select autolayout
   c. select yes when asked to proceed without verifying 
   d. remember to remove the iso file from the cd drive in virtualbox and then reboot.
      otherwise after reboot the install will happen again. :-) you do not want that.

2. configure doas 
 
 $ su -
 # echo "permit nopass dinesh" > /etc/doas.conf
 # exit
 $ doas id

note: replace dinesh with your username

3. install git
 
 $ echo https://ftp.openbsd.org/pub/OpenBSD | doas tee /etc/installurl
 $ doas pkg_add -vv git

3a. configure git

 $ git config --global user.name "Your Full Name"
 $ git config --global user.email "your@email.address"

Note: Kindly replace "Your Full Name" with your full name. And kindly replace your email address with your email address.  

3b. install nano
 $ doas pkg_add -vv nano

3c. install firefox
 
 $ doas pkg_add -vv firefox

4. get openbsd source from hakrtech, so you have my installation modification

 $ cd /usr
 $ doas git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/hakrtech/src.git
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/src

4a. get my scripts

 $ cd /usr
 $ doas git clone https://github.com/hakrtech/reladm.git
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/reladm

5. get x windows source

 $ cd /usr
 $ doas git clone --depth 100 https://github.com/openbsd/xenocara.git
 $ cd xenocara
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/xenocara

6. get ports source
 
 $ cd /usr
 $ doas git clone --depth 100 https://github.com/openbsd/ports.git
 
8. build kernel and install it

 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkkern.sh
 $ doas reboot

9a. build base system

 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkbase.sh

9b. build base faster (use instead of 9a)
 
 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkrebase.sh

10. build x windows

 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkxeno.sh

congrats you have recompiled the whole system.

you can update to the latest source and recompile the system

11. update the kernel

 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/src # you should write perms anywhere under /usr/src
 $ git pull origin master        # this gets latest source
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkkern.sh            # this compiles and installs the latest kernel
 $ doas reboot                 # you need to reboot to start using the new kernel

12. update base
 $ cd /usr/src
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/src # ensure you have permission to write under /usr/src
 $ git pull origin master
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkrebase.sh   # recompile the base system and install it

13. update x windows
 $ cd /usr/xenocara
 $ doas chown -R $USER /usr/xenocara # ensure you can write in /usr/xenocara
 $ git pull origin master
 $ doas /usr/reladm/mkxeno.sh     # compile x windows and install it

you now have a very good development environment, where you can easily update
a. kernel
b. base utilities
c. x windows, 
d. and 3rd party packages
by compiling latest source! 

now enjoy programming your application and/or modify any part of the system.

have fun.

thanks
-dinesh
